In the third talk of this convention,
Brother Noumair asked:
‘Have you experienced financial setback?
‘Has your child faced peer pressure
[and, we could add, bullying] in school?
Do you have a life-threatening disease?’
We’d like to continue that list:
Do you face scorn from workmates?
Do you have a personality issue with someone?
Do family members taunt you?
Well, as we deal with various trials,
we might recall the words of Paul.
He said:
“The way I am aiming my blows
is so as not to be striking the air.”
Well, how do we counteract
the adversities of this system?
Please find 1 Samuel chapter 1.
Hannah had two adversities,
and they were like boom! boom!
—a one-two punch—
designed to drop her for the count.
The first one is in verse 2 of chapter 1:
“[Elkanah] had two wives;
one was named Hannah,
and the other was named Peninnah.”
Well, that’s polygamy.
And Peninnah loathed, she hated, Hannah.
Well, what was the second problem?
It continues:
“Peninnah had children,
but Hannah had no children.”
Hannah was barren.
And in that culture,
this was a bitter reproach for a woman.
Well, what was
devious, uncouth Peninnah really like?
Let’s read verse 6:
“Moreover, her rival wife
taunted her relentlessly
in order to upset her.”
She did this on purpose
“because Jehovah had not given her children.”
And look at the end of verse 7:
“Her rival would taunt her so much
that [Hannah] would weep and not eat.”
Well, as you watch the following artwork,
imagine Hannah’s distressing circumstance
and then how faith turned it all around.
I couldn’t sleep or eat.
I felt my hopes and dreams slipping away.
But even if no one else really understood me,
I knew Jehovah would.
I told him everything.
I knew that the “God of justice”
would set all matters right in his own time
and in his own way.
Jehovah answered my prayer
in such a wonderful way.
I never forgot
where this incredible blessing had come from.
“There is no rock like our God.”
Did you see the grief on Hannah’s face
in that first picture?
In the next piece of art,
she’s peaceful and tranquil,
and she’s voicing her faith
in Jehovah, her Rock.
From despair to calmness of heart,
how did that happen?
In verses 10 and 11,
she demonstrated faith in several ways.
And we can do the same as we face
our own boom! boom!
—one-two punch—
of trials and frustrations of life.
In verse 10:
“Hannah was extremely bitter,
“and she began to pray to Jehovah
and to weep uncontrollably.”
She was “extremely bitter,”
but she prayed.
She cried “uncontrollably,”
but she prayed to Jehovah.
In your agonizing circumstances,
no matter how agitated,
find a quiet place (if only in your mind)
and pour out your heart to Jehovah.
Well, how else did Hannah show her faith?
Well, in that very prayer,
she did ask Jehovah for a blessing.
But she also promised
to give him something in return.
In verse 11:
“And she made this vow:
“‘O Jehovah of armies,
“‘if you look
upon the affliction of your servant
“‘and remember me
and you do not forget your servant
“‘and give to your servant a male child,
“‘I will give him to Jehovah
all the days of his life,
and no razor will touch his head.’”
Yes, she was going to give her son
as a Nazirite from birth
to serve Jehovah all his days
—a sterling example of faith.
Well, what else
likely strengthened Hannah’s faith?
Examples of faithful women
who came before her
with similar circumstances.
Do you remember Rachel and her sister Leah?
They were both married to Jacob.
And like Hannah, Rachel had no children.
And there were issues
between the two because of this.
But you see,
Hannah could look back on that example
and see how Jehovah helped
faithful Rachel to prosper.
It bolstered her faith.
Well, what’s another way
that Hannah showed faith?
Well, despite being distraught
—so distraught that she “would weep”
and could “not eat”—
she continued her spiritual routine.
Verse 7 says that she would go
to the tabernacle faithfully
“year after year.”
In verses 13 through 16,
she was misjudged by the high priest,
but she continued her spiritual routine.
Now, as we said at the outset,
the punches that life throws at us
are different from Hannah’s,
but we too can have
the same strong faith that she did.
Now, in the following dramatization,
though the trial is different,
note how the sister
shows faith like that of Hannah.
I could tell from the doctor’s voice
that the news wasn’t good.
I just didn’t expect my health
to worsen so quickly.
I tried to act like everything was fine
—that I was fine,
but I wasn’t.
Praying to Jehovah,
just knowing he would listen and understand
—that’s what got me through.
No one really knew what I was going through,
not even my friends.
I felt like Hannah
—totally misunderstood.
But she had faith
that Jehovah would set matters straight.
And he did for Hannah and for me.
But more than that,
he reminded me that I wouldn’t have to deal
with this illness alone.
The sister’s circumstances were different,
but she drew strength
from Hannah’s strong faith in Jehovah.
No matter what the circumstances or trial,
how can we imitate the example of that faith?
Well, there are many different ways,
but let’s review a few.
First Peter 5:9
—Satan tries to beat us up
and knock us down,
but we’re not alone.
There are others
who experience the same trials
—1 Peter 5:9:
“But take your stand against him,
firm in the faith,
“knowing that the same kind of sufferings
are being experienced
by the entire association
of your brothers in the world.”
Reflect on Jehovah’s dealings
with other faithful ones,
both in the past and in the present day.
Now, at 1 Samuel 1:12,
it says that Hannah
“prayed for a long time before Jehovah.”
We too can gain relief
through fervent, persistent,
and specific prayers.
Colossians chapter 4 says:
“Persevere in prayer.”
When we pray to Jehovah,
leave it with him,
confident that he will help.
And recall
that “Hannah was extremely bitter.”
She was crying “uncontrollably.”
But after she
poured her feelings out to Jehovah,
verse 18 says:
“[She] went on her way and ate,
and her face was no longer downcast.”
And then after Jehovah acted in her behalf,
Hannah remembered that
and she went back to Jehovah in prayer
and prayed the beautiful prayer
in 1 Samuel chapter 2.
Finally, like Hannah, even if discouraged,
we need to maintain a good spiritual routine.
If we allow distress to paralyze us,
in effect we become
a stationary punching bag for Satan.
Stay nimble on your feet spiritually
—active in your theocratic routine.
And like Paul, aim your blows;
do not strike the air.
Fight back against Satan and his tactics.
If we do all these things,
our bond with Jehovah will grow ever stronger
and Jehovah will reward our faith
like he did for Hannah.
And now Brother Harold Corkern,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
will present the next talk of this symposium,
“Imitate Women of Strong Faith!
—The Captive Israelite Girl.”